.TH black-list 1
.SH NAME
black-list \- manage the black listed phone numbers for voip.ms phone lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B black-list
[
.B \-dhBDHNVX
]
[
.B \-c config
]
[
.B \-f filter-ID
]
[
.B \-l line
]
[
.B \-n note
]
[
.B \-r routing-type
]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c|--config\fR config-file
use the given config file instead of the default ~/.voip-ms.conf
.TP
\fB\-d|--debug\fR
print debugging messages
.TP
\fB\-f|--filterid\fR filter-ID
use the filter ID to specify a rule to delete (with -X) or to change
.TP
\fB\-h|--help\fR
print usage and exit.
.TP
\fB\-l|--line\fR phone-number
phone line to manage black-list for, other than the default from the config file.
.TP
\fB\-n|--note\fR description string
use the string given as a description for who/what is being black-listed.
.TP
\fB\-r|--routing\fR routing-type
type of routing response.
.TP
\fB\-B|--busy\fR
Busy routing response.   short for --rounting sys:busy
.TP
\fB\-D|--disconnected\fR
Disconnect routing response.   short for --rounting sys:disconnected
.TP
\fB\-H|--hangup\fR
Hangup routing response.   short for --rounting sys:hangup
.TP
\fB\-N|--noservice\fR
Noservice routing response.   short for --rounting sys:noservice
.TP
\fB\-V|--version\fR
print version of the program and exit
.TP
\fB\-X|--delete\fR
delete a black-list rule.  Needs the --filterid option
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
black-list
print all black list rules
.TP
black-list --hangup --note 'Acme Computers' 519-555-1234
create a black-list for Acme Computers to hangup when they call
.TP
black-list --filterid 618705 --disconnected
change the routing for rule 618705 to disconnect instead
.TP
black-list --filterid 618705  --routing sys:noservice
change the routing for rule 618705 to noservice instead
.TP
black-list --delete --filterid 618705A
remove rule 618705A
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I black-list
manages the black-list for a phone number.  The default phone number is found in the
config file .voip-ms.conf in the users HOME directory.  The phone line the rules are
for can be changed with the --line option.
.PP
There are defaults in the program.  They will be over-ridden by any valid keywords found in
the 'black-list' section in the config file.  And those will be over-ridden by any options given.
.PP
The accepted routing types to be used with the --routing option are 'hangup', 'disconnected', 'noservice' and busy'.  You can leave off the preceding 'sys:' that you see printed by the program.  It is easier to use the short-cut options though.
.PP
To use this program, you will have to set up access for the IP number you are running this program
from.  Please see the URL \fBhttps://voip.ms/m/api.php\fP  for setting up access.
.SH CONFIG FILE
The config file \fB.voip-ms.conf\fP, found in the user HOME directory,
is used for several programs that use the voip.ms API.
The config file is shared, mainly so there is a single centralized location for authentication data for access 
to the API.
.PP
The required sections in the config file for the \fIblack-list\fP program are:
.PP
.RS 5n
.TP
.B authentication:
    user       = me@foo.bar
.br
    pass       = GabbaGabba
.TP
.B black-list:
.nf
    did        = 5195551212

    routing    = noservice

    note       = 'Added by black-list program'

.fi
.RE
.PP
The 'did' keyword is optional, but if you don't set it in the config file, you'll
need to provide the --line option, and if you don't provide any other
options, it assumes you want to change the DID number in an existing
rule or add a new rule, and will complain.  So instead of printing all black list
rules with no options, it will complain instead.  So, just set a default in the config file.
.PP
The 'routing' keyword is optional.  The default in the program is 'sys:noservice'.
.PP
The 'note' keyword is optional.  The default in the program is 'Added by black-list program'.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
VOIP_MS_CONFIG_FILE
.br
If the environment variable VOIP_MS_CONFIG_FILE is set, and if the file exists, it will
be used instead of the default ${HOME}/.voip-ms.conf - unless it is over-ridden by the
config file options -c or --config
.SH SEE ALSO
get-cdrs(1)
.br
get-did-info(1)
.br
send-sms-message(1)
.SH AUTHOR
RJ White
.br
rj@moxad.com
.br
Moxad Enterprises Inc.
