.TH get-did-info 1
.SH NAME
get-did-info \- get info for phone lines using voip.ms API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B get-did-info
[
.B \-adhAV
]
[
.B \-c config
]
[
.B \-D DID (phone-line)
]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a|--all
print all information about the phone line(s)
.TP
\fB\-c|--config\fR config-file
use the given config file instead of the default ~/.voip-ms.conf
.TP
\fB\-d|--debug\fR
print debugging messages
.TP
\fB\-h|--help\fR
print usage and exit.
.TP
\fB\-A|--account\fR
print the (sub)account name as well as the phone-number in the heading
.TP
\fB\-D|--did \fR phone-number
specify a specific phone line instead of all the phone-lines
.TP
\fB\-V|--version\fR
print version of the program and exit
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
get-did-info
prints the phone numbers known about for the voip.ms account
.TP
get-did-info --account
prints the account number and phone numbers known about for the voip.ms account
.TP
get-did-info --account --all
prints all the info about all the phone lines
.TP
get-did-info --account --all --did 519-555-1212
prints all the info about phone number 519-555-1212.  Dashes are optional
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I get-did-info
gets the information about all the phone numbers known in the voip.ms account.
.PP
With no options, \fIget-did-info\fP prints the phone-numbers known to the
voip.ms account, one per line.  If the --account is used, it precedes
the phone-number with the account or sub-account name, separated by
a semi-colon.  eg: 12345_saublebeach:5195551212.  If the --all option
is used, then all information known about the phone line is printed, indented, as keyword and value pairs.
.PP
It can be used to get the account name of a specific phone number, to be used
to get CDR records just for that account using the \fBget-cdrs\fP command.
.br
For eg:
.PP
.RS 5n
% \fBget-did-info  --account\fP
.nf
    12345:5195551212
    12345_owensound:5195552345
    12345_saublebeach:5195553456

% \fBget-cdrs --account 12345_saublebeach\fP
    ...
    ...
.fi
.RE
.PP
The config file .voip-ms.conf, found in the users HOME directory, requires an 'authentication' section
providing a 'user' and 'pass' entries for connection to the voip.ms API.
.PP
To use this program, you will have to set up access for the IP number you are running this program
from.  Please see the URL \fBhttps://voip.ms/m/api.php\fP  for setting up access.
.SH CONFIG FILE
The config file \fB.voip-ms.conf\fP, found in the user HOME directory,
is used for several programs that use the voip.ms API.
The config file is shared, mainly so there is a single centralized location for authentication data for access 
to the API.
.PP
The required section in the config file for the \fIget-did-info\fP program is:
.PP
.RS 5n
.TP
.B authentication:
    user   = me@foo.bar
.br
    pass   = GabbaGabba
.RE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
black-list(1)
.br
get-cdrs(1)
.br 
send-sms-message(1)
.SH AUTHOR
RJ White
.br
rj@moxad.com
.br
Moxad Enterprises Inc.
