.TH get-cdrs 1
.SH NAME
get-cdrs \- get CDR records for phone lines using voip.ms API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B get-cdrs
[
.B \-dhqrsCEITV
]
[
.B \-a account-name
]
[
.B \-c config
]
[
.B \-f YYYY-MM-DD
]
[
.B \-p padding
]
[
.B \-t YYYY-MM-DD
]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a|--account\fR account-name
use the given (sub)account-name instead of the main account and all sub-accounts
.TP
\fB\-c|--config\fR config-file
use the given config file instead of the default ~/.voip-ms.conf
.TP
\fB\-d|--debug\fR
print debugging messages.  If the -d/--debug option is used more than once,
then debugging is also displayed for config file handling and shows contents
of CDR records
.TP
\fB\-f|--from\fR YYYY-MM-DD
use the given date as the FROM date
.TP
\fB\-h|--help\fR
print usage and exit
.TP
\fB\-p|--padding\fR number
use the number given as the number of spaces between fields printed
.TP
\fB\-q|--quiet\fR
Don't show any headings or titles
.TP
\fB\-r|--reverse\fR
Reverse the order of the CDR's printed.  Print oldest to newest
.TP
\fB\-s|--sheldon\fR
who is Sheldon...?
.TP
\fB\-t|--to \fR YYYY-MM-DD
use the given date as the TO date
.TP
\fB\-C|--cost\fR
total up costs and duration of CDRs
.TP
\fB\-E|--expected-account\fR
show CDR records for BOTH incoming and outgoing calls associated with the account given
by the -a/--account option.  See section EXPECTED-ACCOUNT OPTION for further explanation
.TP
\fB\-I|--ignore\fR
ignore the config entries for 'ignore-cdrs' and print all CDR's
.TP
\fB\-L|--last-month\fR
want CDR records for LAST month
.TP
\fB\-T|--this-month\fR
want CDR records for THIS month
.TP
\fB\-V|--version\fR
print version of the program and exit
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
get-cdrs --from 2017-11-15 --to 2017-11-22 --reverse
prints the CDR records from Nov 15, 2017 to Nov 22, 1017 from oldest to latest
.TP
get-cdrs --last-month --cost --account 123456
prints the CDRs records for all of last month, but only for the account number '123456'
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I get-cdrs
prints the CDR's (Call Display Records) of phone-calls using the API for voip.ms.
Unless a specific phone line is specified using the --account option, then all records
for all accounts and sub-accounts are printed.
.PP
A config file called .voip-ms.conf, found in the users HOME directory by default, is used
to specify authentication information to gather the records using the voip.ms API.
The config file specifies which information fields are wanted, and what order they are
printed in the output and what the titles should be.
.PP
Although the section 'title' must exist in the config file, if any of the individual titles
for a field are missing, then the field-name will be used instead, with the first letter
capitalized.  For example, if no title for the field 'callerid' is specified, then the
title printed will be 'Callerid'.
.PP
The config file section called 'field-size' is optional.  It can specify the size of fields
to be used, which includes a padding (which defaults to 3 spaces).  However, if it is not
given, the program will determine the maximum length of data for that field, add the padding
length (which can be changed with the --padding option) and uses that to determine space to
use.  This is the most space efficient and pretty way to use the program, not specifying the
field-sizes.  However, it means the sizes of fields can change between runs, depending of the
maximum length of the data at the time.  If it is desired or necessary to have consistent
fields-sizes for, say, monthly reports, then use the 'field-sizes' section of the config file.
Note that a specified field-size will be ignored if it is not enough to accommodate the size of
the title for the field.  If the data is too large for whatever field size may be specified,
it will be truncated and ended with 3 dots to indicate that there was more data.
.PP
Be sure to set the timezone correctly in the 'time' section in the config file.  It is best to
verify it is correct by using this program output and comparing it to the time stamp you
see on your calls on the web-site, or better yet, against a call you just made where you know
the correct time it was made.
.PP
To use this program, you will have to set up access for the IP number you are running
this program from.  Please see the URL \fBhttps://voip.ms/m/api.php\fP  for setting up access.
.SH EXPECTED-ACCOUNT OPTION
There is an option called --expected-account or -E which probably needs further explanation.
If you have several accounts, made up of a main account and one or more sub-accounts, then
when you ask to see the CDRs just for some specific account, then you're probably assuming 
you would see both the incoming and outgoing calls for the DID number associated with that
account.  But you'd probably be surprised to find that some CDR's don't show up but instead
show up under your main account.  I thought this was a bug with voip.ms, and submitted a
ticket (# OBIEL5), but apparently this is part of the design.  The response from voip.ms
was as follows:
.RS
.PP
.ll -7
Note that ALL incoming calls will show up <my-main-account> as the account. This is because
incoming calls are filtered per number, not per subaccounts, in fact,
subaccounts are not related to the number.
.PP
On the other hand, outgoing calls will always be filtered per subaccount, since
this is the entity that actually makes the outgoing call.
.RE
.ll +7
.PP
This may not be the behaviour you were expecting.  If you prefer to see both incoming
and outgoing calls for the number that you had associated with the DID when you set up
the sub-account, then you can use the --expected-account or -E option.  This will cause
the program to look up your account information to get the DID number, and then after
collecting all CDR records, only show those that had that number as either an incoming
or outgoing call.  It does this by doing an additional API call using the getDIDsInfo
method.
.PP
Doing this additional getDIDsInfo API call can cause the program to be really slow.
One way to speed it up is by avoiding that additional API call by already having that
account information in your config file, in the 'cdrs' section called 'accounts'.
For example:
.sp
.nf
    accounts (hash) = \\
        123456              = 555-123-4567, \\
        123456_hamilton     = 555-123-8901, \\
        123456_my_alarm     = 555-123-6790, \\
        mom                 = 555-123-1234
.fi
.sp
.PP
This will dramatically speed up the program by avoiding the extra API call.  But it
is important that the info is correct.    You can get this information by running the
program:  get-did-info --account.
.PP
Note the unusual account name 'mom' in the
above example.  This is not a real (sub)account.  Because of the way the program works
using the --expected-account option, you can put in a dummy account here in the config file
and it will look for CDR records, both incoming and outgoing, with that DID number set
to it.  So lets say you wanted to see all your calls with your Mom last month, you could
do a:
.sp
.ti +5
get-cdrs --last-month --expected-account --account mom
.sp
even though you don't
really have an (sub)account called 'mom' set up at voip.ms.  In this case, you aren't
treating it as a DID line that can accept and call any number, you are simply getting
all CDR records that have that number showing as an incoming or outgoing call, regardless
of what account they are really on.
.PP
If you wanted the --expected-account behavior by default, you can omit the option and instead
have a directive in the 'cdrs' section of your config file of:
.sp
.ti +5
show-in-expected-account = yes
.PP
This option has the interesting behaviour that if you use one of your accounts to call the
other account, like say in the above config example you used 555-123-4567 (account 123456)
to call 123456_hamilton (sub-account 123456_hamilton), then you would see the CDR records
when given either of the account names 123456 or 123456_hamilton using the --account option,
since the DID numbers listed with the accounts will be in the CDR record and be matched.
.PP
This means that it can be misleading if you also use the --cost option since it will show
costs for each case and may lead you to think you have been charged twice by voip.ms.  However,
that is not the case since voip.ms will only have the CDR as assigned to one 'account'
whereas here we are more concerned about seeing the CDR associated with the account that
seems more intuitive.  If you are concerned about getting accurate costs per account,
then do not use the --expected-account option and set 'show-in-expected-account' in the config file
to 'no', and then you will get the default voip.ms behaviour when you specify a specific (sub)account.
.SH CONFIG FILE
The config file \fB.voip-ms.conf\fP, found in the user HOME directory,
is used for several programs that use the voip.ms API.
The config file is shared, mainly so there is a single centralized location for authentication data for access 
to the API.
.PP
The required sections in the config file for the \fIget-cdrs\fP program
are 'authentication', 'time', and 'cdrs'.
.PP
.RS 5n
.TP
.B authentication:
    user                = me@foo.bar
.br
    pass                = GabbaGabba
.TP
.B time:
    timezone            = -5
.TP
.B cdrs:
.nf
    cdrs-wanted (hash)  = answered  = 1, \\
                          noanswer  = 1, \\
                          busy      = 1, \\
                          failed    = 1

    order (array)       = date, callerid, destination, description, \\
                          duration, disposition

    title (hash)       = \\
                          date        = 'Date and Time', \\
                          callerid    = CallerID, \\
                          destination = Destination, \\
                          description = Description, \\
                          duration    = Duration, \\
                          rate        = Rate, \\
                          total       = 'Total cost', \\
                          disposition = Disposition

    # field-size (hash)   = date        = 22, \\
    #                       callerid    = 35, \\
    #                       destination = 15, \\
    #                       description = 22, \\
    #                       duration    = 12, \\
    #                       rate        = 12, \\
    #                       total       = 12, \\
    #                       disposition = 12

    # set show-in-expected-account to yes if you want your CDR's to show up
    # with the expected account name for BOTH incoming and outgoing calls
    # when using the --account option.  The option --expected-account for
    # get-cdrs will also have this effect.  Otherwise, ALL incoming calls
    # to any of your (sub)accounts will appear under your primary account
    # name instead of the (sub)account the number is associated with.
    # That is the behaviour of voip.ms and will do this with their web-site
    # CDR lookups

    show-in-expected-account = no

    # don't print CDR's with these Descriptions:

    ignore-cdrs (array) = 'Call Recording'

    # To avoid an extra API call if get-cdrs uses the --expected-account option.
    # This will be a huge speedup for get-cdrs --expected-account
    # It's ok to add spaces, dashes, whatever here for readability, so
    # long as the values are quoted if there is whitespace
    # To look up your DID data, you can do a:  get-did-info --account

    # But you can also create dummy accounts here for specialized CDR
    # reports.  Like if you wanted to see records just for your Mom by
    #    get-cdrs --account mom
    # since it will end up reporting CDRs found that are assigned here
    # to 'mom'.

    accounts (hash) = \\
        123456              = 555-123-4567, \\
        123456_hamilton     = 555-123-8901, \\
        123456_my_alarm     = 555-123-6790, \\
        mom                 = 555-123-1234
.fi
.RE
.PP
The 'field-size' is optional, and as can be seen in the above example, that section is
commented out.
.PP
The 'title' section must exist, but if the individual fields are not given or do not match
real field names, then the field-name will be used as the title, with the first letter capitalized.
.PP
The 'order' specifies the order of output of the fields, as well as which fields are wanted.  The available 
fields are date, callerid, destination, description, duration, rate, total, and disposition.
.PP
The 'cdrs-wanted' specify which classification of CDR records are wanted.  If the value of 1 is given,
then they are wanted.  There are 4 different classes of CDRs:  answered, noanswer, busy and failed.
.PP
There are also optional keywords of 'timeout' and 'ignore-cdrs' that can be given
in the 'cdrs' section:
.nf

    timeout             = 120

    ignore-cdrs (array) = 'Call Recording'
.fi
.PP
The 'ignore-cdrs' can provide one or more CDR's that have the
given description to ignore.  The values given must be an exact match.
.PP
The optional timeout is in seconds and has a default of 30 seconds.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
VOIP_MS_CONFIG_FILE
.br
.sp
If the environment variable VOIP_MS_CONFIG_FILE is set, and if the file exists, it will
be used instead of the default ${HOME}/.voip-ms.conf - unless it is over-ridden by the
config file options -c or --config
.SH SEE ALSO
black-list(1)
.br
get-did-info(1)
.br
send-sms-message(1)
.br
phone-recording(1)
.SH AUTHOR
RJ White
.br
rj.white@moxad.com
.br
Moxad Enterprises Inc.
