.TH send-sms-message 1
.SH NAME
send-sms-message \- send an text message to a phone number
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B send-sms-message
[ OPTIONS ]
.B \-r phone-number
message-to-send
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c|--config\fR config-file
use the given config file instead of the default ~/.voip-ms.conf
.TP
\fB\-d|--debug\fR
print debugging messages
.TP
\fB\-h|--help\fR
print usage and exit.
.TP
\fB\-l|--line\fR phone-number
phone line to send the message from, other than the default from the config file,
called the \fIdid\fP (Direct Inward Dialing).
.TP
\fB\-n|--no-send\fR
don't send the message, but show the URL to send to the API
.TP
\fB\-r|--recipient\fR phone-number
The phone number to send the message to.
.TP
\fB\-V|--version\fR
print the version number of the program.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
send-sms-message -r 555-123-4567 this is a test
send a message to a phone number
.TP
send-sms-message -r rj this is another test
send a message to rj (an alias in the config file)
.TP
send-sms-message -rj rj -l 555-555-6767 Gabba Gabba Hey
send a message to rj (an alias), but send it from a different line.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I send-sms-message
sends a text message to a phone number, from a number belonging to the user at
Voip.ms.
The default phone number belonging to the user is found in the
config file .voip-ms.conf in the HOME directory.  The phone line the message
is sent from can be changed with the --line option.
.PP
The phone number, both the recipient and the number the message is sent from,
can have dashes in it to make it more human readable.  The recipient
phone number can also be an alias, set in the config file.
.PP
To use this program, the user will have to set up access for the IP number 
running this program from.
Please see the URL \fBhttps://voip.ms/m/api.php\fP  for setting up access.
.SH CONFIG FILE
The config file \fB.voip-ms.conf\fP, found in the user HOME directory,
is used for several programs that use the voip.ms API.
The config file is shared, mainly so there is a single centralized location for authentication data for access 
to the API.
.PP
The required sections in the config file for the \fIsend-sms-message\fP program are:
.PP
.RS 5n
.TP
.B authentication:
    user       = me@foo.bar
.br
    pass       = GabbaGabba
.TP
.B sms:
.nf
    did        = 519-555-1212

    aliases (hash) = fred   = 555-123-0001, \\
                     wilma  = 555-123-0002, \\
                     barney = 555-234-0003, \\
                     betty  = 555-234-0004

.fi
.RE
.PP
The 'did' keyword is optional, but if it is not set it in the config file, then 
the --line option will need to be provided with each usage.
.SH SEE ALSO
get-cdrs(1)
.br
get-did-info(1)
.br
black-list.1
.SH AUTHOR
RJ White
.br
rj@moxad.com
.br
Moxad Enterprises Inc.
